---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

**What did you do this past week?**

Much of my week was spent on career fair preparation, applications, and the Netflix project. Regarding the career fair and applications, it doesn't seem that I didn't get great marks on first impressions to land an interview immediately like some people, but it'll just have to be something I work on. The Netflix project was difficult in another way as implementations that I suggested to my partner weren't always considered, but I guess I couldn't explain them well enough. And if my partner reads this, there's no animosity. Things will happen and we just have to get something working, and the project did work in the end.

**What's in your way?**

Nothing at the moment! There are no projects and relatively few homework assignments. Now I'm just waiting to see if I get any interviews with those applications I sent in.

**What will you do next week?**

This week will be spent on developing my website and also preparing to do two presentations on studying abroad. One of the two will be at GDC 2.402, Monday 26th, from 5-6PM! I'm not sure if this is a general computer science info session, but I will definitely be talking about studying abroad in Japan for anyone who is interested.

**The Class**

Much of the week was spent on understanding the application of iterators through implementations of equal, copy, and fill. The basic equal function that we had made in class before did not work for all types, which was solved by using templates (two iterators for the two objects being compared to be specific). We then moved on to understanding how to implement RMSE through transform and accumulate, both of which I had never even heard of before in Java. I'm stuck wondering how much more efficient this is compared to if we did not use them. I did find that the implementation was super clean and intuative though.

The presentation for JPL was incredible. I didn't know they were using the Hololens for such a practical purpose. When I think VR, I usually can only think of the gaming applications, but I didn't know that it helped with spatial visualization when it came to researchers doing work with rovers on Mars.

**Tip-of-the-Week**

One of the most common questions I was asked at the career fair was what kind of projects have I worked on (whether it was in class or outside of class). To be honest, I've never worked on a semester-long project in class, but having something prepared to talk about is much better than nothing. Unfortunately, I wasn't prepared to talk about such things, so I fell flat in that area. As a result, I'm more resolved to work on the things I want to do outside of class, nearly every day, and you can find lots of blogs suggesting such efforts. In other words, stop being such a bum.
