---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - The End
---

**The Class Experience**

I have to say that I now understand why people say to take a class by Professor Downing. It really does go a long way. It's a fantastic class, and the lectures show it. The lectures are full of examples which show the many nuances of C++, and you have to review outside of class to truly understand them. All of the code he lectures off of compiles after all, so you can modify it and try to break it. By missing class is providing a huge disservice for yourself since he tries very hard not to waste a single second. Explanations are concise but definitely answer the questions asked in class, and it really impresses me how quickly Professor Downing can just parse a question and answers it.

**Projects**

I have to admit, projects are where I slipped up the most. Start early like every single project that gets assigned says. Work with someone as it forces you to get out there and stick to a schedule, because you'll be motivated to not hold back another person and feel that the time is more valuable (unless you're just a jerk). Projects were solely my mistake by starting too late every single time for the second half of the semester. I just learn the hard and costly way.

However, they really do apply the things you learn in lecture. Many of the tricks and tips are taught as you progress through the course which is why attendance is so helpful. And many of the tools you use are so very useful and relevant to the industry. I enjoyed being forced to use new tools and figuring out how they worked. Google Test and Valgrind were both essential to the experience by the end, but not so much at the beginning. I would think that the reason for that is because we weren't allowed to use "new" for most of the semester. I also found it useful to compile on Docker because I didn't have to install every dependency on my own installation of Ubuntu, just Docker. I do feel that I should get those packages on my own installation at some point though.

**Tests**

I do like that Professor Downing gives a lot of hints as to what goes on the tests. The tests feel fair as they go over what is in class and what is expected of us to practice outside of class. I just think that Canvas is a frustrating platform to do the code on. I really wish I could just use tabs but instead I waste my time using spaces. The other issue is being forced to scroll up for the spec and tests on test 2 and then scrolling down to type code was not fun at all. I would much rather be able to code on one half of my screen while having tests/spec on the other half, but Canvas isn't really going to have an option for that kind of space management.
