---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Stress
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I have to say that juggling 2 exams and a project this past week has been my worst ever experience academically since starting college. I know people have had worse, but I'm not used to it. The Darwin project has suffered significantly because of it.

**What's in your way?**

We've just been assigned the Life project, but I've been going through a lot of trouble with things I've let build up with my roommates. Unfortunately, I have to take care of more business during the week to figure it all out with them while juggling the project. Other than that, there aren't any more tests until the end of the semester so I'm mostly happy about that.

We've almost reached the 30th quiz as well, so from there, it's about trying to improve the final set of quizzes to replace my worse quiz grades. It still looks like I haven't cracked getting better at the quizes. Ultimately I just have to play with the code.

**What will you do next week?**

I have an on-campus interview with a local company in Austin, BWH Group! I'm hoping for the best and things are clearing up aside from the Life project. Things are definitely looking better ahead for me though. 

**The Class**

Last week we finished up talking about Vectors! Specifically, we implemented the move constructor and move assignment operator to avoid having to deal with linear time copies as there's not much of a reason to copy in the first place if you want to keep the same data with a new pointer. With Java, this was pretty trivial as you didn't have to worry about losing the reference to the data and the garbage collector would clean things up.

On Friday, we talked about local, global, class, and their static variants of variables. I actually got called on one of these, which was the first time in a while I've been cold-called. Static generally seems to extend allocation and scope to the lifetime of the program. However, when they are actually initialized depends on if they are local, global, or class. There's a lot to keep track of compared to Java, but I think it makes sense.

**Tip/Pick-of-the-Week**

[Have you seen the Microsoft Surface Studio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WMklcdzcNcU)? It's quite the technical marvel, being designed from top to bottom for artists. They've really been paving the way on the hardware side of things.

It's funny that I see people even talking about the subject of stress in their tips. Reading the other blogs is kind of a relief in a way since we're all in the same boat. My stress has mostly been stemming from my roommates lately so I just have to talk to them. Communication is really important.
