---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I've been spending a good amount of time preparing my resume and various online social media profiles that have my resume. Between all of that, I've also had to find time to work on the Netflix project with my partner, which has more or less been smooth. We have results at the moment which I think is good at this pace.

**What's in your way?**

The thing that I find the most difficult is this is my first time working with a partner on a programming assignment. I try to give input wherever I can and I hope that when I propose algorithms or solutions, that my partner considers them but sometimes it feels like it's not always reaching. Maybe my explanations aren't good enough.

**What will you do next week?**

The biggest hurdle of next week won't actually be the project though. The bigger hurdle will be the career fair coming up. I've never been to one, and I've read up and heard advice from my peers to prepare... But there's no telling how well I'll do as I've got nothing to compare to. Another way to look at it is I don't have much to lose either.

**The Class**

Class this week felt quite a bit more lax as Monday was a day for getting familiar with the Netflix project. To be honest, it was a lot of information to take in, and when I finally met up with my partner, we didn’t truly understand the task until maybe an hour or two in. I anticipate that we might continue to do the same thing, having a day where we go over the next project in class.

Wednesday was more of a surprise though. I did not hear about Professor Downing having alumni come down to speak with the class, but I do appreciate that he does have them come. The presentation on Bloomberg was interesting, and it showed how relevant it was to learn new languages, use Github, and use continuous integration for testing (although in a slightly different fashion). 

On Friday, we spent a little more time understanding pointers and references and how they are related arrays. The most obvious of the bunch is that you can only get a pointer to the beginning of the array. This pointer is what you typically pass through to the function. It’s typically preferred to use * for pointers as brackets tend to imply that what you want to pass is indexable, which isn’t always the case. Another interesting demonstration was how equal was used in conjunction with arrays, which was that you only give the range of you want from the first element to right after the end of what you want to compare, and you will specify the beginning for the second array. This of course means that you can go beyond the second array’s bounds if you’re not careful.

**Tip-of-the-Week**

My tip of this week is to check out Handshake and get it set up! I didn’t realize how many companies were already listed up there, looking for interns. Of course, it’s likely that some of those companies will be at the career fair and quite possibly tell you to send in an application through handshake, but just having it set up beforehand is one less step to worry about after you’ve done your run at the career fair.
