---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Life Project and Life
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I spent some time working on the Life project and practicing problems from Cracking the Coding Interview before my internship interview with the BHW Group this last Thursday. 

**What's in your way?**

Naturally this project has been a challenge for me but the quizzes have been the worst for me this past week. The Friday quiz interestingly went well enough though. I'd like to replace some of these poor quiz grades, but we'll have to see what the future has in store.

**What will you do next week?**

I've only got the project ahead of me now and I've made sure that I got all of the work I needed to get out of the way already. I'm hoping to hear some good news for my interview as well, but not everything can work out my way.

**The Class**

We began the week with some tips regarding the Life project which was helpful as usual. Part of this explanation was a comparison of how user-types work between Java and C++, and the most notable difference is that user-types in Java can only be in the heap and built-in types can be in the heap indirectly. C++ has a lot of flexibility where both can be in the heap and the stack. With the Life project, we want to keep all of the information that a particular cell has and have each one in the vector be a unique cell so we have to build a wrapper for each type.

The class now shows how everything has built up to this point, demonstrating aspects of object-oriented programming through the nuances of C++. I find the class to be well structured in that regard. We began to talk about shapes with regard to object-oriented design showing a much higher level of abstraction rather than the data structures, memory allocators, and iterators we had been working with the weeks before.

**Pick-of-the-Week**

I've heard of Google doing some of their recruitment through Google Search based on your search query history, but I've never run into it [until now](https://puu.sh/sdkqF/fb1f8380b5.png). There are 5 stages with varying number of problems. So far, I've only done 2 problems, but they are fairly interesting so far. The first problem involved some string manipulation while the second was a derivative of the Knight's shortest path problem. The submission system itself is a terminal-like/Bash-like, so browsing the "file system", requesting problems, text editing, verifying, and submitting is all text-based.
