---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - An Exam and Extra Credit?
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I spent a lot of time getting the Life project out of the way since nothing else was really going on in any of the other classes.

**What's in your way?**

All we've got left is the final exam and interestingly the an extra credit assignment. I hadn't expected that, but I definitely want the points.

**What will you do next week?**

The break isn't looking like much of a break for me though. I've got 3 exams on the Thursday after Thanksgiving which could actually make or break this semester. I've got to study very well for this upcoming exam, but after the first one, I feel like I understand what I should be looking out for. Of course, I'll be taking some time to do the extra credit assignment as well.

**The Class**

Dynamic_cast in C++ allows us to do some interesting things, but at the cost of good object-oriented design. I did avoid using it in the Life project, and I was tempted to just take things the easy way out with the runtime checking of types that Dynamic_cast allows. 

Interestingly, we had one last(?) visit from another company, Spiceworks. I was surprised to see that we actually got a 4th company to come and speak. I do appreciate the time we take to get to know what alumni have done so I can get an idea of what I should expect. Even more surprising is that Spiceworks uses Ruby over all the other options the other companies have presented (Javascript, Python, C++, Java, etc). I feel as though Ruby is a bit more rare these days, so it makes me wonder what level they're looking for or if it's okay to just pick it up on the fly. 

**Pick-of-the-Week**

I've been using Bash for Windows on and off for whenever I need to use the terminal. It's nice to be able to navigate through directories. Unfortunately, Powershell didn't support all of the colors that Bash ordinarily does on an actual Linux installation, but [Microsoft does listen](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/commandline/2016/09/22/24-bit-color-in-the-windows-console/)! You can put in feature requests, try out beta builds (if you're an insider), and they put out blog posts about once a month on their progression of the subsystem. [It's an interesting read](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/commandline/2016/11/17/do-not-change-linux-files-using-windows-apps-and-tools/).
