---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - A New Project
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I attempted to update my tablet to Windows 10 Anniversary (which was having problems already) which required making a boot USB on my desktop that has very little space left on the system hard drive. I used the [disk cleanup tool provided by windows and proceeded to completely break my Windows 7 installation](https://jakekuyser.wordpress.com/2015/11/27/ctrl-alt-hell-windows-7-disk-cleanup-killed-my-pc/) and I had to use my last device, my laptop, to troubleshoot everything. That made last week a boring and non-productive week, migrating files and installing Windows 10 Anniversary on everything.

**What's in your way?**

Nothing other than the project and possible interviews! There are no more tests for a while which I'm grateful for.

**What will you do next week?**

As my computers are now fixed, and they are the systems I prefer to develop on, I will now finish the project we were assigned! I've also began to do HackerRank problems as suggested by many people in the class and my interview practice friends.

**The Class**

We spent the first half of the week to getting familiar with the Allocator project which I always appreciate Professor Downing for doing. There's always a lot to consume with these projects, and it's always explained so well in class when you also read the material beforehand. Pictures/diagrams in class go a long way in an explanation. I didn't think we would implement something that would reproduce how memory is allocated in this class, but it looks to be an interesting assignment with great relevance to C++ and computer systems in general.

The second half of the week was spent on understanding arrays and the pointers for arrays. It's important to note that built in types will be created in O(1) time and objects in O(N) time due to the use of constructors in the creation of the array. The constructor used will depend on what data is available in the array on the right-hand side in {}. We also spent time clarifying the difference between the stack and the heap. The latter has data that persists outside the scope and is created with the keyword, new. It's important to remember to clean up this data with destructors and using valgrind and encapsulators to as ways to put your memory leaks in check. Before, I didn't know any of these differences as Java doesn't really require any attention to these details with the garbage collector. We also spent a little time understanding the implementation of vectors near the end which can be empty and point to nothing or point to an array with some values that use fill to initialize. For user-defined types, this would use whichever constructor is appropriate.

**Pick-of-the-Week**

Here's an [interesting video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wrwwa68JXNk) that details the changes in C++ from newest to oldest through examples! I find it fascinating how something like cross product can be much easier to write in newer versions of C++ against the old.
