---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - After the Test
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I had a test in Object-Oriented Programming and Algorithms this past week! Naturally, that entails a lot of studying during the week before the class!

**What's in your way?**

There's nothing exactly in my way at the moment now that tests are over. I suppose I feel a bit antsy since I want to know what my grades are going to be. Another is less class specific but I haven't heard much from internships I applied around 2 weeks ago (other than two rejects from big names). I feel as though things are looking grim for even getting an interview offer, although I did apply for more places a few days ago. Maybe a GPA of 3.5 is too low for someone with no project experience.

**What will you do next week?**

It appears as though that a new project has been assigned so I'll be starting on that as soon as possible.

**The Class and the Test**

The past week, we spent some time in class learning about various other pointers. They all involve the use of "const" which can cause a bit of confusion. Prof. Downing always gives fun analogies for the things that are harder to remember. The gist of it is that "const int* p" can point to a read-only int. "int* const p" can point to a non-const int and cannot be re-pointed. "const int* const p" can only point to a read-only int and cannot be re-pointed.

I felt like the test was fair, but I hadn't written enough code outside of the class. In particular, I struggled the most on the class definitions, but that was the material I probably covered the least. Thankfully, I had written down some interfaces, but I would have liked to not rely on them so heavily. I feel like I understand how the tests work a lot more, and there were even hints for the contents of the first half of the test, but unfortunately (or fortunately) there's only one more test in the future. 

**Tip-of-the-Week**

Although I'm struggling to get an interview, I've still been doing group interview practice with my friends using Cracking the Coding Interview. They're getting interview offers, and they seem to think that doing this kind of practice helps them out a lot. Best of all, they also like to go over questions they got in the interviews with me and other people. One such question was actually from Hackerrank, which was to find a subarray with the max sum, and another question was to find the "max tilt" of a tree.
