---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Test Time!
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I spent more time applying for internships. I've tried to spread out the types of internships size-wise, but as expected, I wasn't going to hear back as quickly as other people. I also discovered that it's very uncommon for computer science students to study abroad during my presentations so I may look into programs that do research or interning abroad!

**What's in your way?**

I've got two tests on the same day coming up, one of them being for this class of course. The other one is for Algorithms. I have to figure out how to allocate time for group study between the two classes this week in order to do well on both.

**What will you do next week?**

In order to study for Object-Oriented Programming specifically, I think I'll take a look through all of the notes again and definitely write questions for myself based on the guide listed on Piazza. I'll definitely spend a lot of time running the code posted online and modifying it. It'll be interesting to finally be allowed to type my code out for an exam.

**The Class**

We spent some more time learning about iterators by actually writing an iterator in class. It's a world of difference from using iterators in Java (at least, the level of detail we've gone into). In particular, it's easy to tamper with data that belongs to the class or outside of the class if the constructor is not written in a precise way, which is using const and :. One of the biggest differences is how powerful operator overloading is in C++ as opposed to Java. It was interesting to finally get down to the details of pre and postincrement (the latter pointlessly making a copy and taking in an int 0 for the method).

One of the important things I need to remember seems to be the 4 default methods that a class has. These are the default constructor, copy constructor, copy-assignment operator, and the destructor. Prof. Downing urged us to remember them this week when we clearly showed a lot of weakness on the quizzes.

**Tip/Pick-of-the-Week**

Some more of the silly things I've done is create a symlink to a repo's directory to sync my dotfiles across computers. Later, I discovered that when you commit and push a symlink, it basically just shows the path of that file on the repo/other computers, which is obviously useless. So what should done is to put the source file in the repo, make a symlink in the directory you need it to be in (in this case, ~/) and then commit/push those files.

If anyone hasn't heard, there's a new drone from DJI (the Mavic Pro) that will be released soon! It's kind of incredible how much tech they've packed into the size of a purse! It seems that at its top speed, it doesn't show its front blades like on the Phantom 4 and the the camera quality is quite fair for the price ($750 base vs the Phantom 4's ~$1200).
