---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Stepping into the Class
---

**What did you do this past week?**

Between moving back into my apartment and attending class for basically a brief overview of many syllabuses, I spent quite a bit of time trying to get Docker set up. Before that though, since I hadn’t touched my Ubuntu partition in ages, I had to update it which took ages. I also had to spend some time briefly going back over using GitHub and Vim, as they will clearly be useful for the class.

**What's in your way?**

Nothing much has really occurred this week that strikes me as a concern. However, having been studying abroad in Tokyo for the past 4 or so months, I can definitely say I'm still struggling now that I'm back in the states. The biggest worry for me is that I haven’t been coding anything for that period of time. I really wish I could say it’s like riding a bicycle. In that time, my Japanese certainly did improve, but my C and Java knowledge definitely deteriorated. 

**What will you do next week?**

I definitely know that at the end of the week, I will be going to an event in San Antonio called San Japan, which may be a concern for future work ahead in the class. I really do have to stay on top of things or I’ll fall behind in the class. I’ll also begin to plan my days out and spread my work over the week as I’ve found that to be the best way to not stress myself before the deadline for any class.

**The Class**

In class, we began with some basic differences between C++ and Java such as #include/using in C++ and #import in Java. We also learned through example as to why assert doesn't make for a great unit tester which is why we will be using Google Test. I found that it was nice that Dr. Downing posted those notes after class, although the only way for me to organize them neatly is to probably rewrite them as annotations to the notes he posts. 

What stuck out to me the most like most people was that Dr. Downing would call on random people to answer question. For me, it keeps me more attentive in class which I'd say is a plus. This is also the first class where I'll be actively using GitHub as well as using a number of other tools such as Docker and Travis CI in addition to a text editor/IDE and compiler. I do appreciate that this is a class that urges us to use new tools and GitHub in order to prepare us for the workplace.

**Tip-of-the-Week**

I've had Ubuntu installed on my laptop for some time and have used it in previous classes. However, I wanted to install Docker on my Windows 7 PC which... Didn't go so well. In fact, I would have to use Docker Toolbox rather than what is probably the newest version of Docker. To be honest, while PowerShell is miles ahead of the command line, I'm still not used to it at all compared to Bash. I gave up and installed Docker on my laptop, and will probably try another day. I'm convinced that just installing Docker on Linux is just easier and would advise people to do as such, but maybe someone else had a better time (maybe with Windows 10). And for the love of all that is good, make sure your computers are updated, because Windows 7 was clearly a problem, and updating Ubuntu took forever on my potato of a laptop.
