---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I took the time to fill up my calendar with due dates and events over the course of the semester. I just want to make sure that I spend more time enjoying my time at UT as opposed to being solely focused on both work and projects. I also pulled all the files that I needed to get Collatz to work (on Docker as well) and also made sure that they passed the test and attempted to correct them.

**What's in your way?**

I can definitely say that a concern is that now I will have CS 331 homework on top of work I already have. It's just one more thing to juggle around so I hope that I can manage just a little more work. Aside from that, a bit of a downer for me is hearing the news that my cousin passed away who's a fair bit older than me, so I didn't get to know too much about him other than attending family reunions. On Friday, I'll have to return home to Dallas quite late for the funeral on Saturday, but hopefully I can get work done on the bus.

**What will you do next week?**

I'll be spending the next week continuing to improve on Collatz to get a faster time. It's easy to just implement the naive solution, but the optimizations look interesting.

**The Class**

I was pretty surprised at the amount of time that was spent in class just to show us how to plan out all the steps that we might take to do the project. Even more surprising was that even the quizzes and lectures showed us how to further improve our Collatz assignment such as only doing a the upper half of the numbers as it would already test the lower half for the largest cycle length. There is plenty of reason to attend class just for these incredibly helpful tips.

Another interesting bit was when we went over pre and post-increment operators. In general, pre-increment is less expensive and will work for user-defined types it seems. Post-increment has to copy the value, increment, and return. Even more surprising to me was that it even existed for Java.

**Pick-of-the-Week**

I would have to say that everyone should check out Bisqwit's videos on YouTube. His channel is chock-full of interesting little programming videos (most notably, video game emulators) and makes the source available for everyone to see. In particular, he does many optimizations due to a number of constraints on his videos (length, presentation), and I just find all of it fascinating. And he does it in C++, which we happen to be using for this class, although maybe not necessarily the same revision.
