---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - A New Project and Test Grades!
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I spent some time setting up the new Darwin project and did an phone interview with a local Austin tech company, BHW Group. They seem to always be using new technologies and their hires seem to always be enthusiastic about working there, so it might be nice if I could intern there. I think the interview went pretty smoothly so hopefully I hear good news soon.

**What's in your way?**

I still have much of the Darwin project to do and there are also two tests creeping up on me for linear algebra as well as algorithms which might make my week difficult. We also recieved our test grades and I did average, so I just have to maintain the course or try harder to just barely get an A-.

**What will you do next week?**

Aside from studying for my tests and finishing up the Darwin project, I've got to do a lot more resume improvements and also more applications. I must be doing a lot of things wrong if I haven't heard back from many companies at this point.

**The Class**

This week has been surprisingly sparse when it comes to the material in class. We got an explanation over the Darwin project, which also makes it feel like the readings we had been doing were very applicable to the assignment. I have never done UML diagrams before, but the book always had similar diagrams to help visualize what they were talking about when making abstractions for object-oriented design. It seems that planning will really save a lot of time in the long run as it always has with other assignments, but using the UML diagrams might help out even more.

On Wednesday, Pariveda Solutions came in to do a talk, which was a bit more business-like and formal. They focused a lot on their client relationships, which suggests to me that they do a lot more work than just programming all day. It looks like it's a good way to become flexible in a lot of ways, but it didn't seem like an environment that I'd really thrive in.

**Tip-of-the-Week**

I recently talked to a professor that I've been on good terms with for a while now that suggested that I expand my search for an internship in places I never really thought about, and I did find a few companies. In particular, this professor had taught my Japanese classes for 2 semesters, so she always had gone a long way to help me out. As I've always been very good at picking up Japanese as a second language and even studied abroad, I don't feel too intimidated to try to apply to Japanese companies to try to do an internship so long as they'll sponsor me and do most of their work in English. It was just nice to hear suggestions by talking to a professor, and she even tried to contact an alumnus that she knew went to work at a tech company abroad. It's always good to maintain good relationships with your professors even if they're not quite for the degree you're looking for.
