---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I finished the Collatz project just in the nick of time after the hectic weekend I had before that didn't allow me to get any work done. What I was most impressed by was how I carefully planned the meta caching optimization out paper and managed to code it right the first time and passing all the tests. Writing python scripts to also parse data and create the cache in the form of an array was also pretty fun. I'd love to spend more time writing in python to be honest.

**What's in your way?**

After the last quiz, I can definitely say I need to brush up on references and pointers since it's been so long. Other than that, there's nothing in the way until the next project is out.

**What will you do next week?**

At this point in time, I should be preparing for the career fair that's coming up next. I need to update my resume and references for that.

**The Class**

This past week of classes, we spent a lot of time focused on exceptions, pointers and references, and the sizes of data types alongside structs and unions. I was most surprised by exceptions since I had never used try, catch, or throw in Java at all. In Java, I just remember printing to console whenever an exception that I determined to be a problem came up, but these tools seems quite daunting having never used them. Following the code, the code within the try block will be attempted first, but if there is something being thrown, the rest of the body will be skipped, and that throw will persist until it is caught eventually (and fixed), unless it doesn't and then the program crashes (if I remember correctly).

Following that, we brushed up on pointers a bit but we also went over how references worked in C++. To be honest, I feel as though it's still spinning around inside my head, which can only be resolved by spending time on the computer to figure it out.

Data types were more or less what I expected, as it felt like a brief review of what I learned in CS 429. The concept of padding for structs is not unfamiliar to me at all, and it makes sense to fit data types into gaps of 64 bits/8 bytes for that type of machine. What was surprising though was that it lead into the concept of using structs for public functions while using classes for private functions. In particular, I thought that structs could only hold data and nothing more. I suppose I will have to play around with that as well.

**Tip-of-the-Week**

This is a mistake I made while working on the Collatz project but it just goes to show you despite using Ubuntu on and off for over 2 years, I can still make really silly mistakes. Originally, I had a folder for the class in the directory path, ~/classes/cs371p/, ~ being where my home directory is. However, I mistakenly tried to navigate to /classes/cs371p/, a folder which does not exist as that would be from the root directory without ~. So I tried to make another folder without figuring out where the original one was and this is the directory I had been working out of the entire time. Every once in a while, I use a file explorer (Nautilus for Ubuntu) to move around files as I find it more intuitive than text and I couldn't find the newest folder I created for the class. I eventually realized that I had been working in the project directory from the root and not my home folder in terminal.

The gist is, pay attention to your current directory in terminal, checking for things like if you're in ~ or in the root directory, /, and when you make folders, use ./ or else you'll be making them in the root directory rather than your current directory. It'll save you a lot of time making you wonder if the first folder you made was hidden or had incorrect permissions.
