---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - Crunch time
---

**What did you do this past week?**

I spent a lot of time pushing through the allocator project past the deadline.

**What's in your way?**

I'm getting a phone screen tomorrow! I've never really done one before, but I looked up some information on what it's like to code in a Google Doc. I can't say it's exactly spectacular but the tips were pretty basic (change to a monospaced font and remove any of the autocorrection features).

**What will you do next week?**

I'll probably be revising my resume and apply to more internships. I must be failing on the resume portion if I've applied to nearly 25 places and only have had 5 rejections and 1 phone screen. I also have to prepare for Japanese Association's Fall Festival (on Thursday, Oct. 27 from 6PM-9PM with free food and performances) and a linear algebra test. The Darwin assigment just came out as well alongside all of these.

**The Class**

Lately I've been missing a lot of the one point questions while getting the "more difficult" questions on the quizzes correct. I'm not exactly sure what is going wrong, but I definitely need to take a closer look at the class notes. Lately, the questions have been pretty far deep into the concepts in class rather than the readings.

This week we've been implementing Vector in class! There are a lot of tedious details in C++ compared to Java's equivalent, ArrayList. A lot of the details involve allocating and constructing efficiently and effectively, without making extra copies or accidently creating memory leaks or pointing to the wrong data. Specifically, by using the allocator and constructor rather than the fill, you avoid making an additional pass over the array. The first implementation would make an array and filled in T objects with the default constructor and later ran through the array with fill, using the copy assignment, but the latest implementation is a lot more effective as it avoids the creation of the array of T objects with allocate.

**Tip/Pick-of-the-Week**

As I said before, I spent a lot of time past the deadline trying to finish up the allocator project. I had heard that some people were finishing it in under 8 hours so I slacked off. The truth is, because of the tedious nature of the assignment, without careful planning, it can go wrong very quickly.

I've heard of some people complaining about how Professor Downing ends his code blocks with the end brace and semicolon on the same line, but [have they seen this](https://twitter.com/UdellGames/status/788690145822306304)? Style is up to preference (and how your workplace wants it) but this is a bit too much for me.
